Coolguyzone/feat/alerts guide (#17373)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/guides/alerts.mdx

---
title: Setting Up Alerts
sidebar_order: 25
description: "Practical guidance on building an alerting strategy that routes to the right people while reducing noise and alert fatigue."
---

> A misconfigured alert strategy creates noise; too many notifications leads to alert fatigue, the wrong people get paged, and critical issues eventually get ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bunch of alerts without a strategy creates noise; too many notifications leads to alert fatigue, the wrong people get paged, and critical issues eventually get ignored.
```

This guide covers common alerting strategies, how to get more signal with less noise, and three real-world use case walkthroughs.

## Alert Types

Sentry has three alert types. Each serves a different purpose:

| Type | Triggered By | Best For |
| ---- | ------------ | -------- |
| [Issue alert](/product/alerts/alert-types/#issue-alerts) | An individual issue meeting specified criteria | New errors, regressions, issues affecting specific users or tags |
| [Metric alert](/product/alerts/alert-types/#metric-alerts) | A project-level metric crossing a threshold | Crash rates, error rates, transaction volume, p95 latency |
| [Uptime alert](/product/alerts/alert-types/#uptime-alerts) | HTTP check failing | Endpoint availability |

> Most teams start with issue alerts, then add metric alerts for high-level health signals and/or uptime monitoring for critical endpoints.

Reviewer: This section won't be relevant with Monitors and Alerts. Alerts really are just connected to whatever issues you want now (based on monitors or projects + alert conditions). 

You could talk about reasons for doing alerts for different purposes instead?
